I didn't, you know, because I thought, you know, by
God, if you're going to do this, you've got to do it
yourself. And it's a sign of weakness and
inability if you go so silly. So, in fact, that was
an issue when my junior year came around and I
needed teacher recommendations and I didn't know
who I would go ask. As far as you and your friends
were aware, were there any
easy courses, giveaway grades,
Cowboy chemistry was a giveaway grade. That was
for ag majors? Yeah, yeah.
But not really. Were there any that you heard of
where the athletes got freebies? Yeah, but not
freebies, but just the ones that they all took.
There was a, what was it, the marriage and family
class. Dr. Dan, the grade player. Yeah. Dan
Russell. And I heard that the football players all
took that one. But everybody wanted to take that
one because, you know, they saw, you know, Grody
films and, you know, did stuff that everybody
wanted to talk about that our society still wasn't
too clear it wanted to have out in the open. I never
took it. One of my buddies did. It was an education
major. Who were some of the celebrity students
that were here, the students that were high
profile? Fred McClure. Did you meet Fred? We were
very dear friends. We worked in student
government together. Make believe I'd never met
him. Okay. Describe it. It was, and I don't even
remember Fred much from my freshman year, but Fred
was elected speaker of the student senate my
sophomore year, and I was recording secretary.
I'd gone from being an executive aide to being
recording secretary my sophomore year, so we ran
the student senate meetings every couple of
weeks, and so that's how Fred, and Fred And I
remember just being incredibly impressed that
here was a black man who had been president of the
National FFA. And that just blew me away right
there. I thought, this guy has got to be
incredible. To be, you know, in the mid-70s, you
know, a black president of what was perceived then
to be a pretty redneck organization, right? I
thought, man, this guy's got to be incredible, and
sure enough, he was. He was so full of life, so much
fun, so bright. He still... And I have been
doing... I'm speaker myself and have been doing
stuff in the AMA and the TMA, parliamentary stuff
for years, and I have never seen anybody with a
mastery of parliamentary procedure like Fred
McClure did when he was a junior in college. It just
blew me away. We had so much fun. And... Fred
McClure was larger than life. Tony Franklin was
larger than life. Everybody knew who Tony
Franklin was. And I remember running into him one
time, and my asthma had flared up, and I was getting
checked out in the student center, and Tony
Franklin evidently just owned the place. He could
just go anywhere he wanted to, and Tony Franklin
walks in the room while the doctor's checking me
out. Unfortunately, I was dressed, but I just
remember thinking, oh, my God, you know, here's
this football hero standing right here, and
everybody knew him, and But the football players
were Lester Hayes and Pat Thomas and all those guys
were heroes. Where's their? Was there yet a highly
visible, prominent co-ed student? Yes, Kim
Tomes, who won Miss USA. That's T-O-M-E-S. Yes,
yes, Kim Tomes won Miss USA, and she lived in Kruger
with us, and I'll never forget, because, you know,
we talked about the dorm dress code. Well, Kim
would go down to eat breakfast in a T-shirt and
jeans and no makeup and just like anybody else. But
when she went into pageant mode, oh, my goodness,
just a total knockout. And so much fun and so down to
earth. She was a blast. And we were all so proud
because we really, the women on campus, Really,
her winning Miss USA and being an Aggie was
incredibly inspirational to us. It made us feel
really good about having arrived. And the jokes
about women at A&M being less than gorgeous or
whatever. And so that was, yeah, Kim was probably
the highest profile female that I remember. MSC,
what role did the MSC play then in student? It was
very big. Of course, they didn't have near the
number of organizations that they did now, but at
least it seemed very big to me because I was active
in organizations on campus. So that's where, you
know, the kids that were interested and active,
whether you were in the Corps or not, male or
female, they were involved in MSC activities.
They were in student government, they were in
SCONA, they were on OPUS, they were in Town Hall,
they were, those were the kids that were, enjoyed
other people, wanted to be involved, wanted to do
something, wanted to be a part of something. It was
very, very important. Did you meet Wayne Stark?
Yes. Just make believe I didn't know him. Describe
him. Wayne, Mr. Stark, was, I was very intimidated
by him at first because he was obviously the
kingpin of the MSC, really ran a fairly tight ship.
You know, you could tell which kids he favored and
which kids really didn't know him very well. And
what I did not realize until I really got to know him
later on, probably my junior year, I guess, was
how, what a mother hen he really was and how he loved
those students and what incredible pride he took
in their achievements after they left A&M. And
because when Wayne Stark became your advocate, it
was like you had General Patton out there fighting
for you. He was just amazing. And it was so fun to
visit with him in later years, either while I was in
medical school or whatever, brag about him. kids
that had done this and that, kids that you didn't
even realize he had known. And so that was having
his presence. Some students, the people that work
with the students closely in student
organization type stuff, sometimes there's kind
of a buddy mentality or there's a grandfather
mentality. And he was definitely the grandfather
type. And And he was just delightful. Did you ever
hear anybody talk about getting the green couch
treatment from him? Vaguely, but I don't
remember. He had this old, old crotchety looking
green formaldehyde-covered couch, and if he felt
that you were goofing off and not living up to your
potential, he would maneuver you, close the door,
and there was a lecture that you never forgot. It
was called the green couch treatment. It had
nothing to do with sex. No, no. It was to... Oh,
that's funny. Let's see. Was Chad Edwards around?
Yes. Well, no. He had just graduated. Had he? Okay.
Every once in a while, he would come to the student
government office, and I'd see him there, but I
really didn't. I just knew who he was, and I knew
that all the girls in the student government
adored him. And he was quite a presence even then.
Of course, he was handsome. He was charismatic. He
was bright. He obviously had an incredible future
ahead. And like... a number of successful
politicians just have this charisma about them
that draws you to them. Let's see. And so the MSC was
a valuable, valuable... Oh, yes. Incredible.
Was the Rudder Center finished? Oh, yeah. Yeah, it
was finished. Do you remember any important
events there?
see or hear any great concerts or speakers that
were?
I remember Vladimir Horowitz played. Okay. That
was pretty amazing. The first formal concert was
Van Cliburn. Oh my gosh. That was the first. I just
remember just what a gorgeous facility it was and
how impressed I was with the elegance. With your
profession now, did you go to the Quack Shack when
you were a student? Mm-hmm. Describe it. Oh, well.
I... It did not have the best reputation, as many
student health centers don't, but I wasn't afraid
to go over there because I still had, my asthma
still kicked up occasionally and I tended to get
sick a lot and for some reason, Most children get
tonsillitis when they're three or four years old.
I didn't start having tonsillitis until I was in
college. And for a while, they got it about once a
month. So I seemed to be over there a lot. But I just
remember... But the physicians that I talked to
seemed to be... They were okay. Do you remember any
of them by name? Well, who was the head? Gos...
Yeah. Goswin? Goswick? Something like that.
Yeah, and then later did some work with the medical
school, and I just thought he was delightful.
There was one guy there that I, you know, I had a
female problem, and he misprescribed it and gave
me the wrong medicines, and I was just like, oh,
great. But I'll never forget one time, I guess I was
a junior, and was having a female problem and went
over there. And it was just kind of a, everybody
just kind of sat in the lobby together when you were
waiting. And I remember the roommate of the man I
eventually married came over and sat down and was
like, well, what brings you here to the quack
shack? I have a cold. Yeah, I have a cold. And now I'm
so glad that women's health services have their
own place so that women don't have to be subjected
to that kind of embarrassment anymore. That was
mortifying. So you met a special person here? In
medical school. In medical school. Yeah, we
didn't know each other's undergraduates. We'll
get there eventually. What about dates when you
were a freshman and sophomore? I dated some. Dated
some guys in the Corps. Never thought that that
would happen, because I always kind of considered
myself fairly liberal-minded, but they were the
guys that knew what was going on, they were fun,
they had a bunch of buddies, and never missed
anything. They were a lot of fun to be around. Did
they still have the big dances? Boot dance? Yeah, I
had boot dance, ring dance, yeah. What was the
routine for a young lady at one of those? Oh, gosh,
you sat around and hoped somebody would ask you.
And I remember when one of the seniors did ask me to
boot dance when I was a junior. Oh, my gosh, I just
thought that I'd, you know. How were you all
treated at the dance? Like royalty, like
princesses. That's what everybody has said. Yes.
Everybody has said. We were like princesses. It
was incredible. When, on a big, let's see, they
picked you up at the dorm. Did you all wear formals?
Yes. Yes, we wore long dresses. We had corsages. It
was a very...
Well, it was really a very formal process, and the
different meaning of the word formal, that they
would, you know, be called upstairs, or if they
were visiting hours, they would actually come to
your room, but more often than not, we'd meet them
downstairs in the commons and, you know, get your
flower pinned on, and somebody might take a
picture, and they'd escort you over to the dance,
and it was a very... And y'all didn't have dance
cards. No, no, no. And what orchestras? Because it
was a live band, wasn't it? Usually. Sometimes, I
don't remember. I don't remember what bands would
play. See, among the things I wish we could
resurrect is the Aggieland Orchestra, which did
big band music in the 30s and 40s. They were so
successful, they went out of town on buses and made
a profit. Wow. the Houston, Dallas, Waco, Austin,
and they had the, it was Glenn Miller-style music.
Yeah, that'd be wonderful. We need to have
somebody at least play at graduation. This canned
music at graduation thing has got to stop. I'm with
you. Oh, man. Back to the dorms. You all had no male
visiting in girls' dorm rooms. There was. What
were the rules? The rules? Well, guys could come in
the dorms just during certain hours. at not during
the day on the weekdays as I recall for a few hours in
the evening it was okay and on weekends they could
come during the day but you know pretty much had to
be out of there by midnight or or something like
that it was pretty strictly enforced did was there
much partying in the dorms oh yeah oh yeah describe
what oh it's you know people would get together in
somebody's dorm rooms whether it was either just
girls or girls and guys and And there'd be beer,
which was legal then, and music and people
hollering, and they just had a great time. And what
did you all do if the noise was too much? What was the
system for getting them to tone it down? I don't
remember there ever being an issue. I don't think
anybody cared. Oh, okay, okay. If you really
needed to study that night, and they're making
noise, where did you go? You went down to the study
carrels. They were very well insulated and quiet.
If the study carrel that you were at was too close to
the noise, you could go find another one. There
were plenty of them. What was the difference
between Kruger and Dunn, if any? Oh, it was done,
you know, being the male dorm, it was just a little,
yeah, it was just a little, it was a little crazier,
but there wasn't much difference between Kruger
and Mosier, really, when Mosier came online. Were
there also some women's dorms north campus? Yes,
yeah, Keith Lee Fowler Hughes. But this was, y'all
thought better. Oh yes, we were cool. They were
just the ordinary people. What about the food? The
food in the Commons was great. I think the freshman
15 was probably the freshman 20 or 25 for a lot of us.
Because I remember I was very impressed with, of
course you get tired of it after a while, but the
quality, the quantity of the food that was served,
the the baked goods were good. Again, I couldn't
believe we had steak night every once in a while and
we'd get big old T-bones. So the food was good.
Alright, let's go back. Did Mom and Dad give you any
advice as you were entering college? Things to do
or not to do?
Not really because, you know, I knew that there was
a standard. I knew that I was expected to do my best.
I knew that I was expected to not get into trouble. I
knew that I was supposed to be a good girl, and
that's just kind of all there was to it. I mean,
there wasn't a sitting down, coming to Jesus
meeting about any of that. And really, about the
only advice This wasn't advice. Tell me what to do.
Probably sometime, I think it was during my
freshman year, there was a place called the
Mansard House. And there were some guys in the
corps that were getting up a little band. And they
wanted me to be their accompanist. And I'd make
some money, and they wanted me to go play out there.
And Mother was like, not only no, but hell no. You
know, you don't need to be doing that. You need to be
studying and doing that kind of stuff. And that was
not a debatable? No, it was not debatable. Once she
gave you that answer. Yeah, that was not
debatable, and I was really mad. But she was right.
What kind of spending money did you have? Did you
have an allowance or not? I don't even remember.
I've been trying to think that. I think I got a
monthly allowance, and that was... That was
pretty much it, but I don't remember how much it
was. Not very much, I'm sure. And you had a
telephone in your room. Yes. And you made phone
calls occasionally home. Any other phone calls
much? Every once in a while I'd talk to my sister at
TCU or talk to friends at other schools. Is this an
older sister? Yes. Did you ask her for advice ever?
No. No. And when you and, did a group of girls ever go
out on a Friday or Saturday? Oh, yeah. Where would
y'all go? We would go, we didn't go to the Chicken
much. A lot of people went to the Chicken. I didn't
go there very much. It was always so crowded and so
rowdy. But the deal was then Thursday nights go to
Lakeview. And so that was the big deal because the
beer was 35 cents on Thursday nights and Dennis
Ivey and the Wayman would play and there were the
place was packed. And so that's where people went
on Thursday nights. We'd either get a group of
girls going, a group of girls and guys going
together. Sometimes people would have dates, but
it was just, that's where everybody went. And I'll
never, and I think my first time at Lakeview made as
much of an impression on me as my first Aggie
football game. Because I had really never been
around country western dancing, you know,
growing up in the middle of Houston. And And I will
never forget standing in that dance hall and
seeing these people, you know, dance country
western in this big circle around. I was just
absolutely floored. Of course, it wasn't too long
before I was out there with them and just loved it.
We had so much fun. So what would y'all wear to
Lakeview? We would wear jeans and boots, but would
kind of dress up. We wanted to look nice. But we
would dance until we were just raining wet. We
danced and we danced and we danced and we danced.
That was okay for a young lady to drink beer? Yes.
What about something stronger?
That was okay too, but it was awfully expensive.
What were students drinking then? Oh, silly
things like Tom Collins' and rum, you know,
bourbon and coke and sweet liquor concoctions,
you know, sometimes kind of a, you know, a garbage
can, you know, punch type thing with, you know,
Everclear and all that, you know, crazy stuff that
college kids do. But it was a, nobody drank wine.
Nobody drank wine. They drank beer or a sweet mixed
drink. And what were the popular beers? Oh, Pearl,
Schlitz, Lone Star. There was no Miller Lite. We
didn't have Coors in Texas yet then, so that was a
real delicacy if somebody brought some down from
Colorado. Did you or any of your friends ever go to
Whiskey Bridge? No. But you all knew where it was?
No, I don't even remember that. You don't? No. Oh,
straight across, going to Snook, straight across
the river on the right was a little of what would
have been a convenience store country. And that,
in the olden days, was the nearest place to buy
whiskey or to buy anything other than beer. Okay.
Because this was a dry county. I do not remember
that. Well, they tore the building down about a
year ago as they widened Farm Road 60. But that was
the place you went. Then one, before you're in my
memory, because i got here in 59 there was a place
down about where the copy bridge hamburger place
is below 20 on the welborn road there was a place
called uncle ed's and his h-y-r-d-l-y-c-k-a
herdlicka check but it was hard lickers and you
walk down there to drink a lot of beer now you've got
an 11 o'clock 11 o'clock okay all right so we'll go
and it's here so we're but but where You say here,
where? In the library? Yeah, it's in the library
someplace, so we don't have to go far. Let's see. As
a sophomore, was it any different to go to a
football game or a basketball game for you? It was
different just because I was more likely to have a
date. I felt more comfortable there. I felt not as
intimidated by... I knew the traditions. I felt
comfortable with the routine. I... All right,
let's make believe it's a day game, home game,
afternoon. The date would come pick you up when? If
it was somebody in the Corps, he would come get you
before march in. So it was a couple hours before the
game. All right, and then did you go with him to
where? Well, would follow him as far as we could.
Probably don't go over the quad, you know, where
they lined up. And then they would march in the
stadium, and then the girls in their heels and hose
and dresses and mums would walk. We'd all go to the
stadium and meet them in the stadium once they got
done with marching. Now, how would you all
establish exactly where in the stadium you were
going to be while he? We just had our tickets and met
at the seats. Okay. Yeah, just met at the seats. All
right. And there was a mum? Usually, yeah,
usually, yeah, yeah. And during the game, what
kind of shenanigans went on in the stands? Oh,
people just hollered and screamed and had fun. But
not a lot of shenanigans went on in the stands
because we watched those yell-eaters and, you
know, you obeyed those hand signals. And it was
very much a single-celled organism. I mean, just
the student body just acted as one, as a unit. Now,
in the olden days, it was considered cool for
particular sophomore boys to smoke cigars. Was
that, in your day, was that a... I think there was
some of that going on. I don't remember that much.
Some. I remember that more at parties than I do at
the games. Did anybody get drunk during the game?
Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. And what happened to them?
Um... Would sometimes somebody help kind of get
them out of the stadium? Yeah, but I don't remember
that happening too much. I really don't. Um...
Because everybody knew there was going to be a big
party later. What did a young lady do if the Aggie
scored a lot of touchdowns and she had a date with a
guy that she really didn't enjoy much? Well,
that's just too bad. You kissed him anyway.
Or if it was 66 to nothing, perhaps you excused
yourself to the restroom and stayed gone as long as
you could. But then he might want to catch up on you
when you got back. Did you go to many out-of-town
games? I went to a few. I remember coming to the SMU
game once for a court trip. I remember going, yeah,
I remember coming back to Houston, I think maybe
playing Cougar High in Rice Stadium. So I went to
some of the, never went to Waco, but went to some,
never got to go to LSU, never got to do that, because
of course, that's a mosquito. The guys, everybody
wanted to go to the LSU game and party on Bourbon
Street, but I never got to do that. Did you go to
Austin ever? Yeah, yeah, went to, I actually
didn't go to the game. I don't think we had tickets.
Were there any games that were particularly
memorable for you? Oh, that either my freshman or
sophomore year was the first time that we had beat
Texas in a long, like 20 to 10, long, long time. And I
just remember, Ed Simonini played that game, and I
just remember sitting in the stadium after the
game, just kind of wondrous, because I realized
what a big deal that was. And looking at the
scoreboard, and that was, that probably made more
of an impression on me than anything. What did you
and your friends think about Y'all Eaters? Oh,
they were cool. They were it. They were the most
popular guys on campus. And if you had a date with a
yell leader, you were just hot stuff, and that's
all there was to it. Now, if you had a date with a yell
leader, you sat down then on the first row? Mm-hmm.
Mm-hmm. Okay. And they, after a touchdown, did
they run over and kiss the head? Yes. Yes. Okay. And
was there any thought, did you ever hear of any
female even dare think about running for yell
leader? No. No. Were there, were all the Yell
leaders in the Corps then? Yes, but there was a,
Frank Shannon got elected and he was, I don't know
if he was the first non-reg Yell leader, but I
remember he was a non-reg and that was a big deal
when he got, when he got elected. What about
basketball games? Basketball games were fun. I
didn't go to a whole lot of them. I just wasn't a big
basketball fan and
But one of the gals that I ran around with had a crush
on one of the basketball players, so she dragged us
along because she didn't want to miss the games and
didn't want to go by herself because this guy had no
idea who she was. But they were fun. G. Raleigh was
those old wooden seats. We packed it. Nobody goes
now. Isn't that something? Reed is empty, empty,
empty. And they play this silly, goofy, wild music
that has nothing to do with A&M's traditions. You
know, it's fun because baseball now has its own new
set of traditions and things that they do at games
that are really a lot of fun. Yes, yes. And we need to
get that for basketball. And you didn't go to
baseball or track or anything. Let's see, do you
remember any concerts or plays, opus? Oh, I
remember a lot of the concerts, town hall concerts
before football games. Seemed like there was
always a big concert the Friday night before a
football game. I remember the Ohio players. I
remember Linda Ronstadt. That was a big deal when
Linda Ronstadt came to campus. Hamilton, Joe
Franken, Reynolds, some of the country acts. But
these were all just pop groups that were popular at
the time that nobody else has ever heard of. But I
remember just thinking, how did they get these
people to come to College Station, Texas?
Did y'all have any hijinks in the dorm? Any pranks,
jokes? Oh, yeah. None that I really cared to
discuss. You know, making crank phone calls to
guys that you had a crush on. I remember one night
when somebody brought a bunch of cigars and we were
all up there smoking cigars. Oh, God, nasty. Oh,
we've all felt so bad the next day. Occasionally
there were panty raids, but our windows didn't
really open, so that was kind of not much of an
issue. But every once in a while some of the guys
from Dunn or Ashton would come over and do
something crazy. And there was no streaking
during your era, was there? but I think there were a
couple of streaking events like that my first or
second year on campus. I don't remember much about
them, but. What I remember.
What described the Texas A&M's undergraduate
student body when you were here? Where were they
from? Who were they? What were their basic
attitudes, goals? It was
Well, it was interesting because when I started,
fall of 74, my freshman class was the first class
that had an approximately equal number of women
and men. So among the freshmen, it looked like what
I would imagine that pretty much any other college
campus in Texas looked like at the time. You know,
kids in polyester and bell bottoms and, long hair
and, you know, blue eyeshadow, but that kind of
describes the college campus now, actually. But
the upperclassmen were very much more male and
rural. And so it was kind of interesting how there
was a real dichotomy between the upperclassmen
and the underclassmen. Now, did Krugerdown open
that fall? No, I think it had been open for a year,
maybe two. And so there were, you know, there were a
lot of young women on campus and a lot of young women
and older men. Were you all conscious at that time
of this being a? Oh, yes. Oh, yeah. It was very, very
obvious. Were you proud to be a part of the
transition? Yeah. Yeah, I really was. Really was.
Because we knew that we were the wave of a
revolution. And in family income, generalize
about the background of the students. That was
different, too. I think the younger classmen were
more likely to be from upper middle class families
in large cities.